[Music]
not many survival stories can rival the
miracle that happened to Marine
Lieutenant Colonel William Henry Rankin
in 1959 see for yourself
one bad day this man nearly drowned
falling from the sky um are you saying
it it sounds too paradoxical to be true
then take a seat I'll tell you story it
was July 26 1959 when Rankin was
piloting his f8 crusader a single-engine
supersonic aircraft along the North
Carolina coast it was a high-altitude
fly in rankin together with his wingman
Navy lieutenant herbart Nolan were
flying at the height of more than 47,000
feet their jets nicknamed candy stripers
because of their unusual orange and
silver grey coloring were moving through
the air smoothly and lightning-fast
the only thing that could cause some
trouble was a storm that was raging far
beneath the plains but now it didn't
present any threat however the pilots
were supposed to pass through this storm
on their way to the marine airbase at
Beaufort South Carolina things took a
turn for the worse when the aircraft was
approximately nine miles and mere
minutes away from the military base
suddenly rankin's engine quit and the
fire warning light switched on unable to
restart the engine that lost all power
the man knew he didn't have many options
that's why desperate to keep his plane
from gaining speed and going into a
complete nosedive Rankin radioed his
partner
engine failure I have to eject it was a
terrifying decision since the altitude
was too extreme and the Marine didn't
have a pressure suit the only thing that
could help him survive was an oxygen
mask with a limited oxygen supply in any
case the pilot didn't have a choice
without hesitation he pulled the
overhead handle that triggered the
ejection and in no time he was in the
air and his plane disappeared in the
clouds below now Rankin was in a
freefall at a height of 40,000 feet with
a temperature of minus 65 degrees
Fahrenheit usually sports skydivers make
their jumps from a height of
3,500 to 10,000 feet only highly
experienced experts jump from altitudes
higher than 15,000 feet even then it can
lead to serious complications if they
don't have all the necessary equipment
including a pressure suit which as you
remember Rankine didn't have this means
that when the man found himself in the
air at such an unprecedented height he
experienced severe decompression it felt
as if his stomach had increased to twice
his size and his nose seemed like it was
about to explode his eyes ears and mouth
started to bleed for several
blood-curdling moments but the Marine
was sure that the decompression would
finish him right away little did he know
he had a much more severe trial ahead
Rankin continued falling and all he
could feel besides all-encompassing fear
was the shocking coal his wrists and
ankles were burning as if someone had
put ice directly on his skin he'd lost
one of his gloves while leaving the
plane and his left hand felt completely
numb and to make matters even worse he
was still in freefall
of course the pilot had a parachute but
it was supposed to deploy automatically
at an altitude of 10,000 feet and even
if Rankin had decided to open it he
simply wouldn't have been able to do
this that's why in a matter of seconds
and at a dizzying speed the man hit the
very storm he had been piloting his
plane over just minutes before and
that's when another calamity happened
Rankin had been falling through the
black clouds with almost no visibility
for about five minutes
surrounded by lightning rain
Hale and violent winds when something
went wrong with the barometer that was
supposed to deploy his parachute
automatically fooled by the violent
weather raging around the Marine it
triggered prematurely and the man got
stuck in the very middle of a
thunderstorm but it wasn't just any old
thunderstorm no the unlucky 39 year old
fighter pilot plunged straight into a
cumulonimbus cloud these clouds which
often look like huge puffy mushrooms are
incredibly dense and tend to appear in
areas where the atmosphere is extremely
unstable also such clouds are vertical
and the peaks of the most monstrous ones
can reach the height of 70,000 feet the
taller the cumulonimbus cloud is the
more unstable and violent it is inside
that was the circumstance Rankin ended
up in after his parachute opened too
early conversely even if his parachute
had deployed at the supposed altitude of
10,000 feet the man would still have
been sucked back up into the cloud with
the updraft in any case the pilot didn't
have time to dwell on this
his body was tossed about as if he were
nothing more than a rag doll he would
hit the fabric of his parachute fall
back down and repeat this cycle again
the tossing was so bad that even the
experienced fighter pilot felt seasick
lightning snapped and crackled around
Rankin and even though he didn't hear
the Thunder per se he could feel it
vibrating through his body
the hailstones were so big that at some
moments Rankin worried they would tear
his parachute but the worst happened
when the pilot was falling through the
rain for several terrifying moments the
man was sure that he would drown he was
trying to take a breath but only
breathed in mouthfuls of water if he
stayed in that region of the storm for
any longer drowning while falling
through the air would have become a
frightening Lee real outcome he tried to
hold
but it was a very dangerous thing to do
while falling at breakneck speed
meanwhile Rankin was also blown up and
down sometimes as much as 5,000 feet at
a time it seemed to him like he'd been
falling for ages with blasts of
compressed air hitting him the whole
time fortunately not only good things
but bad ones too tend to come to an end
when Rankin finally reached the bottom
of the cumulonimbus tower he had been
inside for more than forty an izing
minutes
the pilot was shocked to discover that
he was relatively unscathed the
Lightning hadn't raised him his
parachute was in one piece and he hadn't
drowned in the rainwater the only thing
he had to worry about now was a safe
landing at first Rankin was going down
towards a clearing but his bad luck
continued because at the last moment a
powerful gust of wind threw him into a
tree the parachute got tangled in the
branches and a pilot hit his head on the
trunk luckily he was still wearing his
helmet and didn't lose consciousness
after freeing himself and staggering to
his feet the pilot limped through the
forest until he found a country road but
hitching a ride turned out to be a tough
task imagine a man standing on the side
of the road covered in blood and dressed
in a soap ripped up flight suit no
wonder there weren't many volunteers to
give him a lift but eventually someone
picked him up and drove to a pay phone
where Rankin managed to call for an
ambulance there he found out what a
lucky man he really was he had countless
bruises and welts scattered all over his
body
he suffered from bad decompression
effects and he had frostbite but other
than that the ordeal didn't leave any
long-term damage Rankin spent several
weeks in the hospital and made a
complete recovery later he wrote the
book the man who rode the Thunder where
he described his experience how about
you do you know any other incredible
survival stories let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
hey don't bail out on me just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life